AP WORLD HISTORY - UNIT 1 MERGED QUESTIONS
Total unique questions: 132

1. AP WORLD HISTORY — UNIT 1 MCQ
Questions with Answers
========================================================================

Source: Uploaded AP World Unit 1 MCQ PDF


2. The disintegration of the Abbasid Caliphate most directly led to which of the following political developments in the Islamic world in the thirteenth century?
   A) The Russian conquest of Central Asia
   B) The rise of Turkic states
   C) The conversion of most of the Islamic world to Shi'a Islam
   D) The collapse of trade along the Silk Road networks
   ANSWER: B) The rise of Turkic states

------------------------------------------------------------------------


3. Despite the disintegration of the Abbasid Caliphate, Islam continued to spread across Afro-Eurasia in the period 1200–1450 primarily because of which of the following?
   A) The conquest of the Christian Crusader States in the Levant
   B) The activities of Sufi missionaries
   C) The voyages of the Muslim eunuch Zheng He
   D) The translation activities of Muslim scholars
   ANSWER: B) The activities of Sufi missionaries

------------------------------------------------------------------------


4. The combination between religious and political aspects in the Abbasid state's concept of governance is best reflected in which of the following?
   A) The Abbasid state had an influential Sunni religious class that often came into conflict with the state.
   B) The Abbasid state often allowed local rulers considerable autonomy.
   C) The Abbasid state patronized the construction of religious buildings such as mosques.
   D) The Abbasid state was headed by a caliph who was both the state's supreme religious and political leader.
   ANSWER: D) The Abbasid state was headed by a caliph who was both the state's supreme religious and political leader.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


5. Which of the following best describes a claim made in the first paragraph of the inscription?
   A) King Adityawarman was a bodhisattva.
   B) King Adityawarman was a Buddhist teacher.
   C) Statues of Buddhist divine figures could spiritually benefit everyone.
   D) Statues of Buddhist teachers were revered by rulers and common people.
   ANSWER: C) Statues of Buddhist divine figures could spiritually benefit everyone.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


6. The claim in the second paragraph that the king has become "free from all physical desire" can best be understood to mean that
   A) Southeast Asian states' ruling elites were very wealthy.
   B) in Vedic religions, rejecting worldly concerns in order to attain spiritual perfection was considered a virtue.
   C) Buddhist monks and nuns in Southeast Asian societies were required to maintain an ascetic lifestyle.
   D) Hindus believed that members of each caste had different rights and responsibilities.
   ANSWER: B) in Vedic religions, rejecting worldly concerns in order to attain spiritual perfection was considered a virtue.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


7. Which of the following is an argument in the second paragraph of the inscription regarding King Adityawarman?
   A) His spiritual attributes and worldly achievements made him a powerful and legitimate ruler.
   B) His attention to the welfare of all of his subjects made him a caring and legitimate ruler.
   C) His conquest of all of the surrounding kingdoms in Indonesia made him a legitimate ruler.
   D) His knowledge of science and ships in an island kingdom made him an effective and legitimate ruler.
   ANSWER: A) His spiritual attributes and worldly achievements made him a powerful and legitimate ruler.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


8. Which of the following pieces of evidence most strongly supports the author’s conclusion about the importance of exotic goods to the Maya region’s economy?
   A) Exotic goods were exchanged over long distances within the Maya lowlands.
   B) Exotic goods were traded between the Maya city-states and neighboring states.
   C) The exchange of exotic goods went hand in hand with the exchange of information.
   D) The Maya region depended on the trade in exotic goods because of relatively low levels of agricultural production.
   ANSWER: A) Exotic goods were exchanged over long distances within the Maya lowlands.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


9. The author directly uses all of the following pieces of evidence to support his argument about the relationship between exotic goods and the power of Maya rulers EXCEPT that Maya rulers
   A) used exotic goods to carry out rituals that their subjects expected them to perform
   B) prohibited nobles and priests from wearing certain types of exotic goods reserved for rulers
   C) used exotic goods in royal coronations
   D) received exotic goods as tribute payments from vassals
   ANSWER: B) prohibited nobles and priests from wearing certain types of exotic goods reserved for rulers

------------------------------------------------------------------------


10. Which of the following does the author cite most directly to support his argument in the third paragraph about the importance of exotic goods in the Maya region?
   A) The existence of sophisticated astronomical tables
   B) The emergence of a unified Maya kingdom based on new political models
   C) The emergence of new systems of writing based on earlier Mesoamerican systems
   D) The existence of unified patterns of behavior in warfare, science, and religion
   ANSWER: D) The existence of unified patterns of behavior in warfare, science, and religion

------------------------------------------------------------------------


11. Which of the following was a continuity in the development of African states in the period circa 1200–1450?
   A) African states such as Ethiopia maintained close contacts with South and East Asian states across the Indian Ocean but rarely had contacts with Europe.
   B) Despite geographical barriers, some African states were able to maintain diplomatic and cultural contacts with the broader Afro-Eurasian world.
   C) Most African states rejected traditional forms of international diplomacy, such as dynastic marriages and tribute payments.
   D) African states needed to maintain friendly diplomatic relations with Europe in order to expand their empires.
   ANSWER: B) Despite geographical barriers, some African states were able to maintain diplomatic and cultural contacts with the broader Afro-Eurasian world.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


12. Which of the following continuities in the development of African states in the period circa 1200–1450 most likely explains the prevalence of Christianity in Ethiopia?
   A) Some African states' religious traditions continued to be influenced by cultural transfers dating back to earlier centuries.
   B) Some African states were famous for their religious toleration and for allowing multiple religious traditions to coexist in their territories.
   C) African states' official religions were typically syncretic mixtures of several different religious traditions.
   D) While African populations mostly continued to adhere to indigenous polytheistic religions, African political elites often adopted monotheistic religions such as Christianity and Islam.
   ANSWER: A) Some African states' religious traditions continued to be influenced by cultural transfers dating back to earlier centuries.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


13. Which of the following was a key similarity in the policies of the rulers of African states such as Ethiopia in the period circa 1200–1450?
   A) They granted their subjects unrestricted freedom of speech.
   B) They used religion and laws to bolster their legitimacy.
   C) They faced challenges to their power from powerful merchant elites.
   D) They sought to achieve economic self-sufficiency by restricting trade contacts with other societies.
   ANSWER: B) They used religion and laws to bolster their legitimacy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


14. The terminology used in the opening sentence of the decree was most directly influenced by which of the following?
   A) The notion that the Pope is the supreme leader of the Church
   B) The medieval rules of chivalry and courtly etiquette
   C) The deep influence of Christianity on medieval society and culture
   D) The slow and uncertain nature of communications in medieval Europe
   ANSWER: C) The deep influence of Christianity on medieval society and culture

------------------------------------------------------------------------


15. The process of "consultations with the nobles and clergy of the realm" in the making of Edward III's decree best reflects which of the following?
   A) The emergence of the concept that parliaments, rather than kings, had ultimate political authority in European states
   B) The fragmented, decentralized nature of European feudal monarchies
   C) The legacy of Roman imperial political traditions on medieval European states
   D) European rulers' practice of making harsh legislation more palatable by claiming it was part of God's will
   ANSWER: B) The fragmented, decentralized nature of European feudal monarchies

------------------------------------------------------------------------


16. The need for legal action to address the "grave inconveniences" that might result from the labor shortages described in the passage most likely resulted from
   A) the agrarian nature of medieval European economies and their reliance on coerced labor
   B) the inability of members of the nobility and other feudal lords to take direct legal action against their workers and serfs
   C) the high social rank and economic standing of plowmen in medieval English society
   D) the presence of guild regulations prohibiting agricultural laborers from working more than a certain number of hours each week
   ANSWER: A) the agrarian nature of medieval European economies and their reliance on coerced labor

------------------------------------------------------------------------


17. Which of the following pieces of evidence most strongly supports the author's arguments about the quality of the highways described in the passage?
   A) They were built by men with tools.
   B) They were very broad, and some extended across the entire kingdom.
   C) There were many roads throughout the kingdom.
   D) Their construction was supervised by government officials.
   ANSWER: B) They were very broad, and some extended across the entire kingdom.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


18. Which of the following pieces of evidence does the author most directly use to support his argument about the king of Spain following the Inca method of highway construction?
   A) The Inca rulers constructed roads to help complete conquests.
   B) The Inca rulers only had to command their officials to construct a highway, and it was completed quickly.
   C) The Inca rulers clearly marked their kingdom with boundaries.
   D) The Inca rulers could acquire specialized tools to cut through mountains.
   ANSWER: B) The Inca rulers only had to command their officials to construct a highway, and it was completed quickly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


19. Which of the following pieces of evidence does the author use to support his argument about the pride of Inca rulers in the second paragraph?
   A) Inca rulers followed the method of dynastic succession for passing political authority from one ruler to another.
   B) Inca rulers performed religious ceremonies to bless the highways and those who traveled on them.
   C) Inca rulers had officials assign men from the provinces to construct the highways.
   D) Inca rulers typically tried to construct bigger and broader highways than their predecessors if they wanted to undertake conquests.
   ANSWER: D) Inca rulers typically tried to construct bigger and broader highways than their predecessors if they wanted to undertake conquests.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


20. The example of an ancient Arabian state that traded extensively and controlled territories on the East African coast can best be used as evidence of
   A) the contributions of East Africa to the development of Eurasian religions
   B) the long-term continuities in state building in coastal East Africa
   C) the importance of the East African coast in the development of African national identities
   D) the technological and logistical challenges faced by Eurasian merchants trying to reach the East African coast
   ANSWER: B) the long-term continuities in state building in coastal East Africa

------------------------------------------------------------------------


21. The interregional connections of states such as those on the East African coast can best be used as an illustration of the continued importance of which of the following?
   A) International diplomacy
   B) Polytheistic religions
   C) Long-distance trade
   D) Patriarchal gender norms
   ANSWER: C) Long-distance trade

------------------------------------------------------------------------


22. The coexistence of rulers and councils of elders in African states in the period circa 1200–1450 best demonstrates
   A) an attempt to imitate the feudal governments of European states and East Asian empires
   B) the influence of indigenous African political practices
   C) an adaptation to the climatic conditions of the East African coast
   D) a reflection of the hardships and uncertainties faced by Muslim seaborne traders
   ANSWER: B) the influence of indigenous African political practices

------------------------------------------------------------------------


23. The act of the countess of Béarn in the image is most closely identified with which of the following political systems?
   A) Manorialism
   B) Serfdom
   C) Monasticism
   D) Feudalism
   ANSWER: D) Feudalism

------------------------------------------------------------------------


24. The image most directly illustrates which of the following features of the political development of medieval Europe?
   A) Its bureaucratization, as European rulers developed sophisticated systems of record keeping to strengthen their authority.
   B) Its decentralization, as European rulers frequently delegated authority to local subordinates.
   C) Its reliance on Roman traditions, as European rulers used ancient customs to demonstrate their legitimacy.
   D) Its ethnic and cultural diversity, as European rulers granted ethnic and religious groups the right to use their own laws and traditions.
   ANSWER: B) Its decentralization, as European rulers frequently delegated authority to local subordinates.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


25. In Europe, political relationships of the type depicted in the image emerged most directly on account of which of the following developments?
   A) Local elites' need for military protection from more powerful lords
   B) Local elites' desire to expand the commercial power of local towns
   C) Local elites' need for military assistance to eliminate religious heresies
   D) Local elites' desire to attract new settlers to their territories
   ANSWER: A) Local elites' need for military protection from more powerful lords

------------------------------------------------------------------------


26. Which of the following best describes a claim made in the first paragraph?
   A) Hindu rulers had constructed irrigation works to control the Kaveri River.
   B) Wild animals destroyed Madurai's Hindu temple.
   C) The Kaveri River flooded and destroyed the city of Madurai.
   D) The city of Madurai's Hindu temple was renowned for its beauty.
   ANSWER: A) Hindu rulers had constructed irrigation works to control the Kaveri River.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


27. A historian would most likely cite which of the following claims made in the second paragraph to demonstrate that Hindu teachings influenced the development of South Asian societies?
   A) There is no agriculture left because Indra now supports the Muslims.
   B) The absence of dharma has caused nobleness and character to disappear.
   C) The Hindu citizens of Madurai are perturbed by hearing parrots speaking Persian.
   D) The Hindu citizens of Madurai protect the owls in their gardens because they are considered to be sacred birds.
   ANSWER: B) The absence of dharma has caused nobleness and character to disappear.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


28. Which of the following is a claim made by the petitioner in the third paragraph?
   A) The gods will directly accompany the king in his conquest of the Madurai Sultanate.
   B) The king has the support of the gods in his efforts to drive Muslims out of Madurai.
   C) A prophecy has shown that the king will conquer the Madurai Sultanate.
   D) The king should establish victory pillars after his conquest.
   ANSWER: B) The king has the support of the gods in his efforts to drive Muslims out of Madurai.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


29. The sponsoring of scholarship by Turkic dynasties, such as the Timurids, best shows that, in the period circa 1200–1450, scholarly activities in the Muslim world continued despite the
   A) conquest of Baghdad by the European Crusaders
   B) expansion of the Song dynasty into Muslim Central Asia
   C) Byzantine reconquest of Palestine and Lebanon
   D) fragmentation of the Abbasid Caliphate
   ANSWER: D) fragmentation of the Abbasid Caliphate

------------------------------------------------------------------------


30. Muslim scholars' incorporation of cultural and intellectual influences from pre-Islamic societies can best be used as evidence that
   A) most educated Muslims continued to speak European languages well into the fifteenth century
   B) European merchants had established trade outposts throughout Muslim Central Asia
   C) Muslim scientists rejected the contributions of scientists from other cultures as heretical
   D) Muslim states and empires were central to the processes of intellectual transfer in Eurasia
   ANSWER: D) Muslim states and empires were central to the processes of intellectual transfer in Eurasia

------------------------------------------------------------------------


31. Muslim scientists in the period before 1450 c.e. generally participated in intellectual and scholarly exchanges with neighboring cultures by
   A) being the recipients of funding from foreign rulers
   B) serving strictly as copyists of earlier works that otherwise would have been lost
   C) expanding upon the legacy of earlier scientific works by conducting their own research
   D) learning from the superior scientific knowledge of medieval western European scientists
   ANSWER: C) expanding upon the legacy of earlier scientific works by conducting their own research

------------------------------------------------------------------------


32. lOMoARcPSD|70358576

   Unit 1 Multiple Choice

English (University of Colorado Denver)

                      messages.pdf_cover_qr_code_label

      messages.studocu_not_sponsored_or_endorsed_by_college
                            messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576

AP World History Unit 1 - 100 Stimulus Based Multiple
Choice Questions

Questions 1 to 3 refer to the passage below.
"[Hangzhou, China, has] ten principal markets.... [They] are all squares of half a mile to the side,
and along their front passes the main street, which is 40 paces in width, and runs straight from
end to end of the city, crossing many bridges of easy and commodious [convenient]
approach.... So also parallel to this great street, but at the back of the marketplaces, there runs
a very large canal, on the bank of which towards the squares are built great houses of stone, in
which the merchants from India and other foreign parts store their wares, to be handy for the
markets. In each of the squares is held a market three days in the week, frequented by 40,000
or 50,000 persons."

                                                            Marco Polo, The Travels of Marco Polo, c. 1300


33. Based on the passage, which of the statements concerning the trading city of Hangzhou is
most accurate?

         (A) Foreigners were not welcome in Chinese trading cities, because they were
         considered barbarians and had nothing of value to trade.
         (B) Many of the people coming to trade in cities in China were Europeans traveling along
         the Silk Roads.
         (C) Hangzhou was a vital trading city because it had foreign merchants and was also
         accessible by the Grand Canal for internal trade.
         (D) Chinese imperial governments limited the number of markets in Hangzhou to just a
         few centrally-located areas of the city.


34. What development, which began before the passage above was written, allowed
Europeans to obtain the products of East Asia?
         (A) Chinese dynasties, such as the Tang and the Song, grew stronger, so long-distance
         trade could be conducted with less risk.
         (B) New maritime technology allowed for ocean-going ships to travel safely between
         Europe and Asia, going around southern Africa.
         (C) The Tang Dynasty expanded into the Middle East, so the trade routes between
         Europe and Africa were under one ruler.
         (D) With the defeat of the Islamic caliphates, Europeans were able to establish direct
         contact with the Tang and the Song dynasties.

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576


35. What products would Indians and other non- Chinese merchants be most likely to purchase
in a market such as the one described in the passage?

         (A) silk, porcelain, and tea
         (B) pepper, nutmeg, and cinnamon
         (C) cows, pigs, and oxen
         (D) rugs, parchment, and horses

Questions 4 to 6 refer to the passage below.
"In the name of God the Merciful and the Compassionate: This is the safe conduct accorded by
the servant of God Umar, the Commander of the Faithful, to the people of [Jerusalem]. He
accords them safe-conduct for their persons, their property, their churches, their crosses, their
sound and their sick, and the rest of their worship. . . . No constraint shall be exercised against
them in religion nor shall any harm be done to any among them....
The people of [Jerusalem] must pay the jizya [required tax on non-Muslims] in the same way as
the people of other cities. They must expel the Romans [Byzantine soldiers and officials] and
the brigands from the city. Those who leave shall have safe-conduct for their persons and
property until they reach safety.
Those of the people of [Jerusalem] who wish to remove their persons and effects and depart
with the Romans [Byzantines] and abandon their churches and their crosses shall have safe-
conduct for their persons, their churches, and their crosses, until they reach safety."

                                     Muhammad ibn Jarir al-Tabari, History of the Prophets and Kings,
                                                    "Peace Terms with Jerusalem, 636 C.E.," 10th century


36. Which trait of Islamic rule described in this passage was also evident in Islamic rule in al-
Andalus?

         (A) The persecution of other religions by Islamic leaders
         (B) The toleration of other religions by Muslims in conquered territory
         (C) The conflict between Romans and Byzantines over territory
         (D) The desire to improve relations with the Romans in Jerusalem

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576


37. What viewpoint led Umar to this trait of Islamic rule?
         (A) He did not actively seek converts to his faith.
         (B) He believed Christians and Jews were only a small threat to his faith.
         (C) He was more concerned with political than religious issues.
         (D) He considered Christians and Jews to be "People of the Book."


38. Which development resulted from a change in Umar's policy toward Jerusalem by the
Seljuks?

         (A) The beginning of the Crusades by European Christians
         (B) A shift in trade patterns
         (C) An increase in the power of the Byzantine Empire
         (D) A decrease in taxes paid by Jerusalem residents

Questions 7 to 9 refer to the excerpt below.
"The Hindus believe that there is no country but theirs, no nation like theirs, no kings like theirs,
no religion like theirs, no science like theirs. They are haughty, foolishly vain, self-conceited, and
stolid. They are by nature [reluctant] in communicating that which they know, and they take
the greatest possible care to withhold it from men of another caste among their own people,
still much more, of course, from any foreigner.... Their haughtiness is such that, if you tell them
of any science or scholar in Khorasan [a region in southwest Asia] and Persia, they will think you
to be both an ignoramus and a liar. If they traveled and mixed with other nations, they would
soon change their mind, for their ancestors were not as narrow-minded as the present
generation is."

                   Ghazni, Al-Beruni, Muslim scholar at the court of Mahmud of early 11th century


39. Which element of Al-Beruni's point of view does he express most clearly in this passage?

         (A) He was a monotheist writing about people he considered polytheists.
         (B) He was a non-Hindu who was writing about Hindus.
         (C) He belonged to a group that had been conquered by the people he was writing
         about.
         (D) He grew up in a region to the west of the region he was describing.

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576


40. Which part of India's history most directly supports al-Beruni's claim about how the Hindu
culture he observed differed from earlier culture in India?

         (A) The decreasing importance of the caste system.
         (B) The policies on the religion of Ashoka
         (C) The development of the Bhakti movement
         (D) The raids by Mahmud of Ghazni
         (note: According to Al-Beruni, the difference population of the Hindus and Muslims was
         significant which made them have more respect for other people. Therefore, the part of
         India's history that most directly supports al-Beruni's claim about how the Hindu culture
         he observed differed from earlier culture in India is the decreasing importance of the
         caste system.)


41. The intended audience of this excerpt most likely consisted of
         (A) young Hindus in Khorasan and Persia
         (B) the older generation of Vaishyas in South Asia
         (C) Buddhists who might not be familiar with Hindus
         (D) Muslims who lived in South Asia

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576

Questions 10 to 12 refer to the passage below.
"The Inka [Inca] ruled the greatest empire on earth. Bigger than Ming Dynasty China, bigger
than Ivan the Great's expanding Russia, bigger than Songhay [Songhai] in the Sahel or powerful
Great Zimbabwe in the East Africa tablelands, bigger than the cresting Ottoman Empire, bigger
than the Triple Alliance (as the Aztec Empire is more precisely known), bigger by far than any
European state, the Inka dominion extended over a staggering thirty-two degrees of latitude as
if a single power held sway from St. Petersburg to Cairo. The empire encompassed every
imaginable type of terrain, from the rainforest of upper Amazonia to the deserts of the
Peruvian coast and the twenty-thousand-foot peaks of the Andes in between. 'If imperial
potential is judged in terms of environmental adaptability,' wrote the Oxford historian Felipe
Fernandez-Armesto, 'the Inka [Inca] were the most impressive empire builders of their day." "

                      Charles Mann, 1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus, 2005


42. Why were the Inca able to achieve the accomplishment described in the passage?
         (A) They divided their empire into four provinces so it would be easier to govern.
         (B) They demanded heavy tribute from conquered groups living on the edges of their
         empire.
         (C) They routinely sent armies through the empire to collect tribute.
         (D) They forced conquered people to adopt the language of the Inca.


43. The Carpa Nan demonstrates the main point expressed by the writer in the excerpt
because it

         (A) made living in the rainforest possible
         (B) provided a common system of written communication
         (C) provided irrigation for terraced farmlands
         (D) connected the parts of the empire


44. When the author of the passage describes the Incan civilization as the "greatest empire
on earth," he means that it
         (A) constructed great buildings and other structures
         (B) conquered other empires, including the Aztecs
         (C) adapted successfully to diverse environments
         (D) were the wealthiest civilization in the world in 1491

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576

Questions 13 to 15 refer to the image below.

Source: 2630ben/ Thinkstock                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              The ruins of the wall at Great Zimbabwe.


45. One achievement represented by the structure in the image was that it was built
         (A) with techniques used by Arabs and the Portuguese
         (B) without mortar
         (C) without slave labor
         (D) away from any large settlement of people


46. What trend among cities around the world of that era is reflected in this image?
         (A) Cities relied on walls for protection against attackers.
         (B) Cities were being founded in increasingly dry regions.
         (C) Cities were becoming less dependent on trade.
         (D) Cities were founded in open areas that were easier to defend.

                             messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576


47. One factor that contributed to the declines of both Great Zimbabwe and of the Mayans
was

         (A) invasions by neighbors with iron weapons
         (B) contact with Europeans
         (C) environmental damage
         (D) ethnic conflicts within the community
Questions 16-18 refer to the chart below.

                        Average Air Temperatures In Eastern Europe, 850-1950

                     Source: Adapted from H.H. Lamb, "Climatic Fluctuations," H. Flohn, ed. World Survey of
                     Climatology, vol. 2, General Climatology, (New York: Elsevier, 1969), p. 236.


48. Which trend followed the temperature pattern shown in the graph?
         (A) The centralization of political power
         (B) The rate of growth in the urban population
         (C) The use of systems of coerced labor
         (D) The spread of Christianity in Europe

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576


49. Which statement accurately reflects an effect of the temperature pattern shown in the
graph?

         (A) The Little Ice Age caused shortages of food and reduced the amount of agricultural
         surplus available for trade.
         (B) One result of the Little Ice Age was that Vikings from Scandinavia began raiding
         coasts along England and France.
         (C) As climates in Spain cooled, Ferdinand and Isabella financed the voyages of
         Christopher Columbus in search of land for cash crops.
         (D) As a result of the pollution from the growth of industry in Western Europe,
         temperatures began to rise as the ozone became depleted.


50. A historian would most likely use the chart to research which of the following
developments in the period 1450-1750?
         (A) The decline of Norse colonies in Greenland
         (B) Native American transfer from dependence on agriculture to hunting
         (C) European civil unrest and weakened economies
         (D) A surge in witch trials on both sides of the Atlantic

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576

Questions 19-21 refer to the image below

 Source: Wujing Zongyao. 1040 to 1044. Traction trebuchet on an early Song Dynasty warship. Trebuchets like this
                                   were used to launch the earliest type of explosive bombs.


51. This image can be used as evidence for which of the following c. 1200 to c. 1450?
    A. The Song Dynasty continued to rely on Confucianism and Confucian scholars to legitimize their
         rule.
    B. The effects of Chinese cultural traditions on neighboring countries over time.
    C. China's continued tradition of scientific and technological innovations.
    D. The Chinese maritime voyages led by Admiral Zheng He


52. Which element of the image above would have the greatest impact on Afro-Eurasia due
to increased cross-cultural interactions
in the period c. 1200 to c. 1450?

    A. The trebuchet on top of the ship
    B. The oars used to steer the ship
    C. The design of the ship
    D. The explosives carried on the ship


53. Which of the following Chinese cultural traditions had the largest impact on neighboring
regions in East Asia c. 1200 to c. 1450?
    A. Canals
    B. Confucianism
    C. Paper money
    D. Foot binding

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576

Questions 22-24 refer to the passages below
"The Ancients [Greek physicians] have claimed that snake flesh and theriac* made from it can
heal [the patient] of leprosy*, but I do not have such experience, even though its reputation
is famous."

                                                         Source: Muhammad ibn Zakariya al-Razi, a Persian Muslim, 854-925
   Found in Dina Bacalexi, Mehrnaz Katouzian-Safadi. Two readings of Galen: Rhazes (9th-10th cent.) and Leonhart

       Fuchs (16th cent.). International Conference Scientiae 2015: Disciplines of knowing in the Early Modern World,
                                                                               Scientiae International Research Group, May 2015

"Vipers (snakes) were `to be utilized, as Avicenna* taught, in food, drink, electuaries*,
ointments, and grand theriac.'"

       Source: Jordanus De Turre, a Spanish Christian, Summa on Leprosy or Treatise on the Signs and Treatments of
                                                                                                                    Lepers c. 1313-1335.

                     Found in Luke Demaitre, Bulletin of the History of Medicine. Vol. 70, No. 1 (Spring 1996), pp. 25-61

*Theriac & electuaries were kinds of medicine
*Leprosy is an infectious disease
*Avicenna (Ibn Sina) was a Persian scholar (980-1037)


54. The passages above most clearly illustrates which of the following c. 1200 to c. 1450?
    A. The continued impact of religion and belief systems on society
    B. The spread of Chinese cultural traditions
    C. The consequences of political decentralization in Europe
    D. The effects of intellectual innovation in Dar al-Islam


55. The passages above could best be used as evidence of which of the following historical
developments c. 1200 to c. 1450?

    A. The influence of Islamic beliefs and practices in South Asia
    B. The creation of the House of Wisdom in Abbasid Baghdad
    C. Scholarly and cultural transfers in Muslim and Christian Spain
    D. The Mongol encouragement of significant cultural transfers


56. In the first passage al-Razi's attitude towards ancient Greek physicians is best used as
evidence of which of the following
developments c. 1200 to c. 1450?

    A. Islamic scholars preserved and commented on ancient Greek texts
    B. The wisdom of the ancient Greeks was used to guide political decisions made by the Abbasid

         caliphate
    C. Changes in philosophy as new Turkic peoples dominated Dar al-Islam
    D. The influence of ancient Greek philosophers on Persian poetry

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576

Questions 25-27 refer to the map below

Source: Agriculture at the Middle Ages in Europe (12th-15th century) http://knolik.com/picture0000314.html


57. The position and size of the church in the map above is evidence of which of the following
developments from c. 1200 to c.
1450?

    A. The creation of feudalism and the manorial system
    B. The importance of Christianity in shaping European society
    C. The struggle between secular and religious authority that characterized Europe
    D. The break with existing Christian traditions by Protestants


58. The whole map above can best be used as evidence of which development c. 1200 to c.
1450?
    A. Ottoman religious tolerance for Christians in the Balkans
    B. European dependence on Islamic and Asian technological developments in agriculture
    C. Europe was largely an agricultural society dependent on free and coerced labor
    D. European reliance on cash crops for economic development

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576


59. Territories like the one pictured on the map were the result of which historical
development from c. 1200 to c. 1450?

    A. Political decentralization following the collapse of the Roman Empire
    B. Colonization by foreign invaders
    C. The centralizing power of the Catholic Church
    D. The creation of the Mongol Empire

Questions 28 to 30 refer to the excerpt below.
"The Hindus believe that there is no country but theirs, no nation like theirs, no kings like theirs,
no religion like theirs, no science like theirs. They are haughty, foolishly vain, self-conceited, and
stolid. They are by nature [reluctant] in communicating that which they know, and they take
the greatest possible care to withhold it from men of another caste among their own people,
still much more, of course, from any foreigner. ... Their haughtiness is such that, if you tell them
of any science or scholar in Khorasan [a region in southwest Asia] and Persia, they will think you
to be both an ignoramus and a liar. If they traveled and mixed with other nations, they would
soon change their mind, for their ancestors were not as narrow-minded as the present
generation is."

                             -Al-Beruni, Muslim scholar at the court of Mahmud of Ghazni, early 11th century


60. Which element of Al-Beruni's point of view does he express most clearly in this passage?
         (A) He was a monotheist writing about people he considered polytheists.
         (B) He was a non-Hindu who was writing about Hindus.
         (C) He belonged to a group that had been conquered by the people he was writing
         about.
         (D) He grew up in a region to the west of the region he was describing.


61. Which part of India's history most directly supports al-Beruni's claim about how the Hindu
culture he observed differed from earlier culture in India?

         (A) The decreasing importance of the caste system
         (B) The policies on religion of Ashoka
         (C) The development of the Bhakti movement
         (D) The raids by Mahmud of Ghazni

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576


62. The intended audience of this excerpt most likely consisted of
         (A) young Hindus in Khorasan and Persia
         (B) the older generation of Vaishyas in South Asia
         (C) Buddhists who might not be familiar with Hindus
         (D) Muslims who lived in South Asia

Questions 30-32 refer to the passage below.
"At that time, great disturbances erupted among the lower ranks of people, by which England
was nearly ruined. Never was a country in such jeopardy, and all because some commoners
sought to claim liberties to which they were not entitled. It is customary in England, as in other
countries, for the nobility to have great privileges over the commoners, who are bound by law
and custom to plow the lands of nobles, harvest the grain, carry it to the barn, and perform
various other services for their lords.
The evil-disposed in these districts began to rise, saying they were too severely oppressed; that
at the beginning of the world there were no unfree people, and that no one ought to be treated
as such, unless he had committed treason against his lord, as Lucifer had done against God: but
they had done no such thing, for they were men formed after the same likeness as their lords,
who treated them like beasts. They could no longer bear this, and wanted to be free. And if
they were to do any work for their lords, they demanded to be paid for it."

                                                               -Jean Froissart, French chronicler, late 1300s


63. The events described in the passage represent a reaction against which of the following
forms of coerced labor?

         (A) Slavery
         (B) Military conscription
         (C) Indentured servitude
         (D) Serfdom


64. English nobles resisted peasant demands such as those described in the passage because
agricultural labor in many parts of fourteenth-century Afro-Eurasia had become scarce as a
result of which of the following developments?

         (A) The migration of peasants to cities in search of industrial employment
         (B) Significant increase in mortality due to the spread of epidemic diseases
         (C) The development of wage-based economies with the emergence of capitalism
         (D) Widespread famine resulting from rising global temperatures

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576


65. All of the following statements are factually accurate. Which most likely explains
Froissart's view of the peasants' grievances discussed in the passage?

         (A) Even though he was French, Froissart traveled to England to collect information for
         his chronicles.
         (B) Peasant revolts were fairly common in medieval Europe.
         (C) History writing in medieval Europe was aimed primarily at elite audiences.
         (D) In addition to his chronicles, Froissart wrote a work of romance based on the legend
         of King Arthur.
Questions 34-37 refer to the maps below.
TYPICAL SAILING ROUTES AND SCHEDULES OF OMANI MERCHANTS TRAVELING TO EAST
AFRICA AND CHINA FROM MUSCAT, CIRCA 1400 C.E.

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576


66. The particular routes and timings of the voyages depicted on the maps best reflect which
of the following characteristics of Omani merchants?

         (A) Their Islamic ritual observances, which made travel difficult during the fasting period
         of Ramadan
         (B) Their advanced knowledge of Indian Ocean currents and monsoon wind patterns
         (C) Their need to avoid the routes traveled by the faster and better-armed Portuguese
         trading ships
         (D) Their control of the sources of grain needed by Chinese and East African cities


67. Based on the maps and your knowledge of world history, which of the following best
describes the effect of the spread of Islam on Indian Ocean trade?
         (A) It led to the expansion and intensification of commerce along already existing trade
         routes.
         (B) It led to the disappearance of previously established trade networks.
         (C) It led to an expansion of land-based caravan trade but also to a decline of maritime
         trade.
         (D) It led to the first creation of trade links between previously isolated world regions.


68. Which of the following factors contributed the most to Omani traders' ability to
undertake the voyages depicted on the maps?
         (A) The strong backing for the voyages by the Caliphate
         (B) Navigational and maritime innovations, such as the astrolabe and lateen sail
         (C) The spread of Arabic as the language of commerce in the Red Sea and western Indian
         Ocean basins
         (D) Innovations in agriculture, which allowed the Omani population to increase rapidly


69. Which of the following could be best inferred about the South and East Asian trading
cities shown on the maps?
         (A) They were under the direct political control of Oman.
         (B) They had a majority Arab population.
         (C) They had Muslim diasporic merchant communities.
         (D) They were primarily sources of slave labor for the Omanis.

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576

Questions 38-41 refer to the passage below.

         The king rarely goes out; but, to chant the liturgy and worship, on every seventh day he
proceeds by way of this tunnel to the hall of worship where, in performing divine service, he is
attended by a suite of over fifty men. But few amongst the people know the king's face; if he
goes out he sits on horseback, protected by an umbrella; the head of his horse is adorned with
gold, jade, pearls and other jewels. Every year the king of the country of Ta-shih [citizens of the
Caliphate] who is styled Su-tan [Sultan} sends tribute-bearers, and if in the country some
trouble is apprehended, he gets the Ta-shih to use their military force in restoring order.

                                Passage regarding the city of Antioch from A Description of Barbarian Nations, Records of
                                                                                        Foreign People, a 13th century Chinese text.


70. The text of this passage is best viewed as evidence of which of the following continuities
of the thirteenth century?

         (A) Mongol destruction of Middle Eastern cultures
         (B) Christian dominance in Medieval Europe
         (C) An ongoing economic connection between East Asia and the Middle East
         (D) The strength of the caliphates' militaries over invading armies


71. The customs of the king, as described in the passage, are most strongly influenced by
which of the following?

         (A) Christianity
         (B) Confucianism
         (C) Buddhism
         (D) Islam


72. Which of the following best explains the motivation behind sending out tribute-bearers?
         (A) To acknowledge control over certain foreign relations
         (B) To ensure ongoing wealth for the caliphate
         (C) To provoke military action
         (D) To maintain a balance of trade with other countries


73. This excerpt was written in the context of which of the following?
         (A) A decline in Silk Road trade activities.
         (B) A Chinese Golden Age
         (C) Mongol control spanning from Europe to Asia.
         (D) The spread of medieval Christendom

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576

Questions 42-44 refer to the map below.

                     ["African Trading States, Ca. 1200-1600 Ce." World History: Ancient and Medieval Eras, ABC-
                     CLIO, 2019, ancienthistory.abc-clio.com/Search/ Display/627946. Accessed 2 Apr. 2019.]

                                                                                           Major African trade centers (1250-1600)


74. Which of the following could be best inferred about the African trading cities shown on
     the maps?
     (A) Gold was a primary driver of the African trade networks.
     (B) Large-scale trade was largely limited to places with coastal or desert access.
     (C) The Sahara Desert prevented the cities from having economic contact with Arab
            traders.
     (D) African trading cities were fueled by the access granted by the Nile River.

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576


75. Based on the map and your knowledge of history, which of the following is true of African
     economic activity in the late thirteenth through sixteenth centuries?
     (A) Christian travelers carved out the trans-Saharan trade routes in northern Africa.
     (B) African cities acted primarily as trading outposts, as there were few natural resources
            they had to offer.
     (C) African traders saw little use in trans-oceanic economic relationships.
     (D) The gold trade sustained the economic supremacy of most of Africa's major cities


76. Which of the following best describes a commonality between the Swahili states and Mali
during the fifteenth century?

         (A) Muslims spread both economic goods and Islamic culture on their way to and from
         trade centers.
         (B) Both groups were governed by common political system.
         (C) Malians and the Swahili people each experienced modes of cultural diffusion from
         Asian travelers.
         (D) Both locales were primarily sustained by the salt trade.

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576

Questions 45-48 refer to the map and passage below.
Source 1

Source 2
"For some years I continued averse from mentioning this event, deeming it so horrible that I shrank
from recording it and ever withdrawing one foot as I advanced the other. To whom, indeed, can it be
easy to write the announcement of the death-blow of Islam and the Muslims, or who is he on whom the
remembrance thereof can weigh lightly? O would that my mother had not born me or that I had died
and become a forgotten thing ere this befell...
For even Antichrist will spare such as follow him, though he destroy those who oppose him, but these
Tatars spared none, slaying women and men and children, ripping open pregnant women and killing
unborn babes. Verily to God do we belong, and unto Him do we return, and there is no strength and no
power save in God, the High, the Almighty, in face of this catastrophe, whereof the sparks flew far and
wide, and the hurt was universal; and which passed over the lands like clouds driven by the wind...
Islam and the Muslims have been afflicted during this period with calamities wherewith no people hath
been visited. These Tatars (may God confound them!) came from the East, and wrought deeds which
horrify all who hear of them."

                                                                            Ibn al-Athir, On the Tatars, 1220-1221 C.E.


77. What was one of the primary reasons that the Mongol invaders were able to move easily
through the large swaths of territory shown in Source 1?

         (A) They took advantage of trade routes established as part of the Silk Road network.
         (B) They used their shipbuilding and navigation skills to travel quickly along river
         systems.
         (C) They brought enormous amounts of grain with them to maintain a steady food
         supply.
         (D) They encountered little resistance from local peoples due to previously established
         peace treaties.

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576


78. Which of the following most likely explains why the author of Source 2 describes the
Mongol invasions as the "death-blow of Islam and the Muslims"?

         (A) The Mongols forced the people they conquered to convert to shamanism.
         (B) The Mongols wiped out all traces of Islam by killing those who would not renounce
         Muhammad.
         (C) The Mongols captured the birthplace of Islam on the Arabian Peninsula and
         destroyed all of Islam's holy places.
         (D) The Mongols destroyed the cities at the heart of medieval Islamic civilization.


79. Present-day historians would most likely agree with which of the following assertions
from Source 2?
         (A) The Mongol invasions destroyed Islam completely.
         (B) The Mongols passed over the lands like clouds.
         (C) The Mongols spared no one in the lands they conquered.
         (D) The Mongols practiced a particularly brutal form of warfare.


80. The fear that people experienced after hearing of the Mongol invasions in texts such as
Source 2 most likely contributed to which of the following?
         (A) A mass exodus of people from their ancestral homelands
         (B) A renewal of splits along traditional tribal lines
         (C) An increased readiness to concede to the Mongols' demands
         (D) A decline in desire for urbanization

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576

Questions 49-52 refer to the passage below.

    "Their women are of surpassing beauty, and are shown more respect than the men. These
 people are Muslims, punctilious in observing the hours of prayer, studying the books of law,
 and memorizing the Koran. Yet their women show no bashfulness before men and do not veil
 themselves, though they are assiduous in attending prayers. Any man who wishes to marry
 one of them may do so, but they do not travel with their husbands, and, even if one desired
 to do so, her family would not allow her to go. The women have their "friends" and
 "companions" amongst the men outside their own families."

                                                                                 Ibn Battuta, Travels in Asia and Africa, circa 1354
                                       From Gilbert, Erik T; Reynolds, Jonathan T., Africa in World History, 3rd Ed. � 2012.


81. Based on the passage and your knowledge of world history, which of the following best
describes why a contemporary reader of this passage might be surprised?

         (A) The women of Mali appear to have less autonomy than those of other Islamic
         nations.
         (B) The women of Mali appear to have more autonomy than those of other Islamic
         nations.
         (C) The women of Mali appear to be more religiously observant than those of other
         Islamic nations.
         (D) The women of Mali appear to be less religiously observant than those of other
         Islamic nations.


82. In addition to wanting to see more of the world, why did travelers such as the author of
the passage travel to Mali in the fourteenth century?

         (A) To participate in the salt and gold trade
         (B) To participate in the silk and sugar trade
         (C) To participate in the copper and iron trade
         (D) To participate in the rum and whiskey trade


83. Which of the following historical developments in the period between 1450 C.E.. and 1750
C.E reduced the importance of the inland areas of West Africa?

         (A) The Ottoman absorption of the Barbary States of North Africa
         (B) The establishment of African kingdoms that were heavily involved in the slave trade
         (C) The spread of New World crops to Europe and Asia
         (D) The settlement of Cape Colony by the Dutch


84. Which of the following provides the best explanation for the presence of Islam in the
Kingdom of Mali?

         (A) Conquest of the region by Umayyad forces
         (B) Traveling Islamic scholars who sought to convert to faraway lands
         (C) Contact with trading cities along Africa's Mediterranean coast
         (D) The presence of several significant holy sites of Islam

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576

Questions 53-56 refer to the passage below.

         6. After our death [Charles VI], and from that time forward, the crown and kingdom of
France, with all their rights and appurtenances, shall be vested permanently in our son [son-in-
law], King Henry [of England], and his heirs.

         7.....The power and authority to govern and to control the public affairs of the said
kingdom shall, during our lifetime, be
vested in our son, King Henry, with the advice of the nobles and wise men who are obedient to
us, and who have consideration for the advancement and honor of the said kingdom....

         24.....[It is agreed] that the two kingdoms shall be governed from the time that our said
son, or any of his heirs shall assume the crown, not divided between different kings at the same
time, but under one person who shall be king and sovereign lord of both kingdoms; observing
all pledges and all other things to each kingdom its rights, liberties or customs, usages and laws,
not submitting in any manner one kingdom to the other.

         29. In consideration of the frightful and astounding crimes and misdeeds committed
against the kingdom of France by
Charles, the said Dauphin, it is agreed that we, our son Henry, and also our very dear son Philip,
duke of Burgundy, will never treat for peace or amity with the said Charles.

                                                                                          Treaty of Troyes, 1420


85. The Treaty of Troyes can best be understood in the context of which of the following?
         (A) The Thirty Years War
         (B) The War of Spanish Succession
         (C) The English Civil War
         (D) The Hundred Years' War


86. The intended outcome of the treaty can best be summarized in which of the following
ways?

         (A) England withdrew from France.
         (B) The French monarchy would rule over England.
         (C) England gained control over the French monarchy.
         (D) England would retain limited control over French territory.


87. Which of the following was a consequence of the treaty?
         (A) The French surrendered to the English army.
         (B) The French monarchy ended until the fifteenth century.
         (C) The French were inspired to strengthen their military resistance against England's
         rule.
         (D) The French ceded internal government control to the Huguenots.

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576


88. Which of the following was a long-term consequence of this conflict between France and
England?

         (A) French monarchical power became more centralized.
         (B) Both France and England moved toward stronger parliamentary systems.
         (C) Catholic influence in France subsided.
         (D) The English monarchy was severely weakened.

Questions 57-60 refer to the passage below.

         The people are Idolaters; and since they were conquered by the Great Kaan they use
paper-money. Both men and women are fair and comely, and for the most part clothe
themselves in silk, so vast is the supply of that material, both from the whole district of Kinsay,
and from the imports by traders from other provinces. And you must know they eat every kind
of flesh, even that of dogs and other unclean beasts, which nothing would induce a Christian to
eat.

         Since the Great Kaan occupied the city he has ordained that each of the 12,000 bridges
should be provided with a guard of ten men, in case of any disturbance, or of any being so rash
as to plot treason or insurrection against him. Each guard is provided with a hollow instrument
of wood and with a metal basin, and with a time-keeper to enable them to know the hour of
the day or night. And so when one hour of the night is past the sentry strikes one on the
wooden instrument and on the basin, so that the whole
quarter of the city is made aware that one hour of the night is gone. At the second hour he
gives two strokes, and so on, keeping always wide awake and on the look out. In the morning
again, from the sunrise, they begin to count anew, and strike one hour as they did in the night,
and so on hour after hour.

                                                                          The Glories Of Kinsay [Hangchow], Marco Polo, c. 1300


89. According to Marco Polo, Kinsay was governed with an emphasis on which of the
following?

         (A) A strong economy
         (B) Reinforced security
         (C) Cultural homogeneity
         (D) Isolationism


90. Marco Polo visited Kinsay during which of the following dynasties?
         (A) Song
         (B) Yuan
         (C) Ming
         (D) Qing

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576


91. The reference to silk clothing is evidence of which of the following insights about Kinsay's
occupiers?

         (A) The occupiers were advanced in manufacturing.
         (B) The occupiers reformed the economic structure of China.
         (C) The occupiers trained in Chinese traditional fabric making.
         (D) The occupiers tolerated local customs.


92. Which of the following represents an ongoing historical trend that benefited Marco Polo
at the time this account was written?
         (A) The trade connection established by the Mongol empire enabled the free passage
         and trading opportunities that allowed Marco Polo to complete his journey.
         (B) The spread of the Black Plague limited meaningful interaction between would-be
         trade partners from separate regions of Euro-Asia.
         (C) The resurgence of the Silk Road allowed for easier overland trade during the rule of
         the Yuan Dynasty.
         (D) The success of the transatlantic trade boosted interest in exploring the Far East,
         leading to many
         wealthy Europeans financing opportunities for explorers to travel to Asia.

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576

Questions 61-65 refer to the map below.


93. The voyage as shown in the map most clearly demonstrates which of the following
developments of the time period?

         (A) The strength of European business ventures in India during the sixteenth century
         (B) A lack of interest in the New World on the part of Portuguese explorers
         (C) The inaccessibility of Muslim lands at the dawn of the sixteenth century
         (D) Portuguese dominance in sea exploration during the late fifteenth and early
         sixteenth centuries


94. Which of the following conclusions about the early sixteenth century is most directly
supported by the map?
         (A) Portugal was primarily interested in exploration of the African and Asian coasts.
         (B) Vasco da Gama was the first European to embark on intercontinental travel by sea.
         (C) European nations began to look outward for economic opportunities.
         (D) Europeans began mass migrations to distant lands in the early sixteenth century.


95. Which of the following is an accurate statement concerning Asian nations' interactions
with European powers throughout the sixteenth century?
         (A) Japan actively engaged with Portuguese traders and missionaries throughout the
         century.
         (B) India long resisted European attempts to establish ports along its coast.
         (C) Ming rulers successfully maintained an isolationist policy despite European attempts
         to create more trade with China.
         (D) Asian countries exclusively had interactions with Spanish and Portuguese traders
         throughout the
         sixteenth century before other European nations finally became interested in exploring
         the East.

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576


96. Which of the following best explains the impact of the trade relationship between the
Portuguese and Africans in the sixteenth century?

         (A) Unlike other European nations, the Portuguese mostly ignored the trading
         opportunities available in Africa, and instead chose to focus on economic expansion in
         Asia.
         (B) The Portuguese engaged in trade for gold and salt, but unlike other European
         powers, refused to
         participate in the slave trade.
         (C) The Portuguese set up ports along the western and southern African coasts which
         led to beneficial economic opportunities for many African people.
         (D) The Portuguese exploited human labor by bringing enslaved Africans to Europe.

Questions 65-69 refer to the passage below.

Since the Sung dynasty had lost the throne and Heaven had cut off their sacrifice, the Yuan [Mongol]
dynasty had risen from the desert to enter and rule over Zhongguo [China] for more than a hundred
years, when Heaven, wearied of their misgovernment and debauchery, thought also fit to turn their fate
to ruin, and the affairs of Zhongguo were in a state of disorder for eighteen years. But when the nation
began to arouse itself, We...conceived the patriotic idea to save the people, and it pleased the Creator to
grant that Our civil and military officers effected their passage across eastward to the left side of the
River. We have then been
engaged in war for fourteen years; ...We have established peace in the Empire, and restored the old
boundaries of Zhongguo. We were selected by Our people to occupy the Imperial throne of Zhongguo
under the dynastic title of `the Great Ming,' ... We now send a native of your country...to hand you this
Manifesto. Although We are not equal in wisdom to our ancient rulers whose virtue was recognized all
over the universe, We cannot but let the world know Our intention to maintain peace within the four
seas. It is on this ground alone that We have issued this Manifesto.

                                     Manifesto of Accession as First Ming Emperor, 1372 C.E. (Sent to Byzantine Emperor)


97. This manifesto was created in the wake of which of the following events?
         (A) The Ming seizing control of China following the defeat of the Mongol government
         (B) A peaceful transfer of power from the Yuan rulers to the Ming emperor
         (C) The defeat of the Sung Dynasty by an alliance of Mongol and Ming warriors
         (D) The rise of Mongol power in China after years of violent struggle


98. In which of the following ways did the Ming Dynasty differ from the previous ruling
dynasty?

         (A) The Ming was interested in expanding its borders, while the Yuan was largely
         isolationist.
         (B) The Ming ruled over a period of economic and cultural stagnation, while the Yuan
         oversaw a Chinese Golden Age of artistic and technological innovation.
         (C) The Ming placed emphasis on local and internal economic trade, while the Yuan
         employed seafarers to seek out trade partners abroad.
         (D) The Ming returned China to its Confucian roots, while the Yuan respected, but did
         not fully embrace the tenets of Confucianism.

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576


99. Which of the following best characterizes the author's tone in the passage?
         (A) Vengeful over the costs of fourteen years of warfare
         (B) Confident in his assurance of a long-term peace
         (C) Joyful over the rise of a new dynasty
         (D) Concerned about the instability of the Ming empire


100. Which of the following reasons best describes the Ming Emperor's interest in writing to
the Byzantine Emperor?

         (A) To alert the Byzantines that China no longer wishes to engage in expansionary wars
         (B) To share news of the rise of the Mongols who now rule China
         (C) To offer an invitation into a more active economic relationship
         (D) To warn to the Byzantine emperor not to challenge China's borders


101. The Ming Emperor's assertion that he "pleased the Creator" is a reference to which
traditional Chinese ruling concept?
         (A) Filial piety
         (B) Legalism
         (C) Mandate of Heaven
         (D) Neo-Confucianism

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576

Questions 70-72 refer to the passage below.
         "As for the city of Karacorum I can tell you that, not counting the [Khan's] palace, it is

not as large as the village of Saint Denis, and the monastery of Saint Denis is worth ten times
more than that palace. There are two districts there: the Saracens' [Muslims] quarter where the
markets are.... The other district is that of the Cathayans [Chinese] who are all craftsmen.

         Apart from these districts there are the large temples of the court scribes. There are
twelve pagan [Buddhist] temples belonging to the different nations, two mosques in which the
law of Mihamet [Muhammad] is proclaimed, and one church surrounded by a mud wall and has
four gates. At the east gate are sold millet and other grain, which is however seldom bought
there; at the west sheep and goats are sold; at the south oxen and carts; at the north, horses."

                                                            Friar William of Rubruck's The Journey of William of Rubrick (1254)


102. Which of the following best characterizes the group governing the city of Karacorum?
         (A) Mongols
         (B) Muslims
         (C) Chinese
         (D) Christians


103. From the information given in the excerpt, which of the following best describes a policy
of this city?

         (A) Persecution of minority groups
         (B) Command economy
         (C) Heavy taxation
         (D) Religious tolerance


104. The passage can best be described as which of the following?
         (A) A historian documenting the structure of a government system
         (B) A religious leader describing the diversity of his city
         (C) An outsider reporting on his observation of a foreign city
         (D) A government official criticizing an ongoing practice in a local district


105. The khans achieved most of their territory gains through which of the following methods?
         (A) Economic influence
         (B) Militarization
         (C) Agricultural innovation
         (D) Diplomacy

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576

Questions 74-75 refer to the passage below.

"Upon their arrival they were honorably and graciously received by the grand Khan, in a full
assembly of his principal
officers. When they drew nigh to his person, they paid their respects by prostrating themselves
on the floor. He immediately commanded them to rise, and to relate to him the circumstances
of their travels, with all that had taken place in their negotiation with his holiness the pope. To
their narrative, which they gave in the regular order of events, and delivered in perspicuous
language, he listened with attentive silence. The letters and the presents from Pope Gregory
were then laid before him, and, upon hearing the former read, he bestowed much
commendation on the fidelity, the zeal, and the diligence of his ambassadors; and receiving
with due reverence the oil from the holy sepulcher, he gave directions that it should be
preserved with religious care. Upon his observing Marco Polo, and inquiring who he was, Nicolo
made answer, This is your servant, and my son; upon which the grand Khan replied, "He is
welcome, and it pleases me much," and he caused him to be enrolled amongst his attendants
of honor. And on account of their return he made a great feast and rejoicing; and as long as the
said brothers and Marco remained in the court of the grand Khan, they were honored even
above his own courtiers. Marco was held in high estimation and respect by all belonging to the
court. He learnt in a short time and adopted the manners of the Tartars, and acquired a
proficiency in four different languages, which he became qualified to read and write."

                                                                                    Marco Polo's Travels, circa 1300 C.E.


106. The encounter described in the account above illustrates which of the following?
         (A) The economic dominance of the Ottoman Empire
         (B) The influence of Middle Eastern religious beliefs on the peoples of South Asia
         (C) The lack of cooperation among major political groups in the High Middle Ages
         (D) Amiable cultural exchange between Europe and Asia


107. Which of the following best characterizes one way in which the Mongol Empire was very
different from the other major empires of the ancient and medieval worlds?

         (A) The Mongols generally ignored or assimilated to the cultural identities of the people
         whom they conquered.
         (B) The Mongols often took over territory without major destruction or bloodshed.
         (C) The Mongols imposed their religious beliefs on the people whom they conquered.
         (D) The Mongols had little interest in trading with their geographic neighbors.

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576

Questions 76-78 refer to the map below.


108. Who were the primary groups traversing the Sahara Desert to reach West Africa along the
trade routes shown on the map?

         (A) Islamic traders
         (B) European traders
         (C) Chinese traders
         (D) Mongol traders


109. What was one significant effect of the Indian Ocean trade shown on the east side of the
map?
         (A) The emigration of large numbers of Africans to southern Asia
         (B) The development of the Swahili language
         (C) The conversion of most of the coastal parts of eastern Africa to Christianity
         (D) The importation of gold from Arabia


110. What is the main reason that there were no significant trade routes in the central portion
of the map?
         (A) The hostility of local tribes discouraged outsiders from entering.
         (B) The central part of Africa has no significant resources.
         (C) Linguistic barriers made trade difficult.
         (D) The harshness of the terrain made travel practically impossible.

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576

Questions 79-81 refer to the passage below.
"For these were a people who emerged from the confines of China, and attacked the cities of
Turkistan, like Kashghar and Balisaghun, and thence advanced on the cities of Transoxiana, such
as Samarqand, Bukhara and the like, taking possession of them, and treating their inhabitants in
such wise as we shall mention; and of them one division then passed on into Khurasan, until
they had made an end of taking possession, and destroying, and slaying, and plundering, and
thence passing on . . . even to the limits of Iraq, whence they marched on the towns of
Adharbayjan and Arraniyya, destroying them and slaying most of their inhabitants, of whom
none escaped save a small remnant; and all this in less than a year; this is a thing whereof the
like hath not been heard."

              Muslim historian ibn al-Athir's description of invasions of Islamic territories (c. 1230)


111. The invaders described by the historian went on to create which of the following Chinese
dynasties?

         (A) Song
         (B) Yuan
         (C) Ming
         (D) Qing


112. The passage can best be used as evidence for which of the following trends that took
place during the thirteenth century?

         (A) Widespread cultural diffusion through military expansion
         (B) A use of violence to suppress religious expression
         (C) The disruption of trade networks
         (D) The rise of the Gunpowder Empires


113. Which of the following additional pieces of information would be most directly useful in
assessing the extent to which the developments reflected in the passage represented a long-
term threat to Islamic culture?

         (A) Information on the administrative policies of Islamic empires
         (B) Information on military strategies used by Islamic empires to fend off attacks
         (C) Information on the specific practices of Islamic culture
         (D) Information on changes in the number of practitioners of Islam from the thirteenth
         through twentieth centuries

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576

Questions 82-85 refer to the passage below.
"The Chinese are all infidels: they worship images, and burn their dead just like the [Hindus].
The King of China is a Tartar, and one of the descendants of [Genghis] Khan...In all the Chinese
provinces, there is a town for the [Muslims], and in this they reside. They also have cells,
colleges, and mosques, and are made much of by the Kings of China...
When we approached this city [of Hangzhou] we were met by its judge, the [elders] of
Islamism, and the great merchants.
The [Muslims] are exceedingly numerous here. This whole city is surrounded by a wall: each of
the six [districts of Hangzhou] is also surrounded by a wall. In the first reside the guards, with
their commander. I was told that, in the muster-rolls, these amount to twelve thousand...In the
second division are the Jews, Christians, and the Turks who worship the sun: these are
numerous, their number is not known: and theirs is the most beautiful city. Their streets are
well disposed, and their great men are exceedingly wealthy. There are in the city a great
number of [Muslims], with some of whom I resided for fifteen days; and was treated most
[honorably]..."

                                                                        Ibn Battuta, Voyages, 1332-1346 C.E.


114. The observations expressed in the passage are best seen as evidence for which of the
following in Yuan China?

         (A) Policies of religious toleration
         (B) Instatement of foreigners as provincial administrators
         (C) Mongol assimilation into Chinese culture
         (D) Military pressures from internal unrest


115. Which of the following conclusions about the period 600 C.E-1450 C.E is most directly
supported by the passage?

         (A) Long-distance contact between civilizations stagnated.
         (B) New religious traditions overturned prior lasting religious beliefs.
         (C) The empires of steppe nomads united trade links across Eurasia.
         (D) Technological developments spread across trade routes.


116. Which of the following changes to Chinese policies regarding trade occurred under the
Ming Dynasty of China?

         (A) The Chinese government restricted foreign merchants to specific sites in the coastal
         cities.
         (B) The Chinese government monopolized the production and sale of key resources,
         such as salt and iron.
         (C) The Chinese government endorsed Chinese merchants to conduct trade missions
         abroad.
         (D) The Chinese government abandoned Confucian principles to allow merchants a
         greater participation in local government.

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576


117. Compared to the observations expressed in the passage, Mongol administration of its
Russian domains in the period C.E to 1450 C.E differed in that it

         (A) was only tolerant of Orthodox Christianity, while the Mongol administration in China
         favored many religious traditions
         (B) relied heavily on tribute from the Russian principalities, while the Mongol
         administration in China emulated a centralized Chinese bureaucratic state
         (C) was viewed favorably by its subjects, while the Mongol administration in China
         encountered immense domestic unrest
         (D) stimulated Russian export of trade goods to China, while the Mongol administration
         in China intentionally curtailed Chinese economic activity

Questions 86- 89 refer to the passage below.
"I travelled thence to `Aden, the port of Yemen, on the coast of the ocean. It is surrounded by
mountains and can be approached from one side only; it has no crops, trees, or water, but has
reservoirs in which rainwater is collected. The Arabs often cut off the inhabitants from their
supply of drinking-water until they buy them off with money and pieces of cloth. It is an
exceedingly hot place. It is the port of the Indians, and to it come large vessels from Kinbayat
[Cambay], Kawlam [Quilon], Calicut and many other Malabar ports [on the south-west coast of
India]. There are Indian merchants living there, as well as Egyptian merchants. Its inhabitants
are all either merchants, porters, or fishermen. Some of the merchants are immensely rich, so
rich that sometimes a single merchant is sole owner of a large ship with all it contains, and this
is a subject of ostentation and rivalry amongst them. In spite of that they are pious, humble,
upright, and generous in character, treat strangers well, give liberally to devotees, and pay in
full the tithes due to God."

         From Travels in Asia and Africa, 1325-1354 by Ibn Battuta; translated and edited by H. A. R. Gibb. Copyright
                                     �1929 by Broadway House. Reproduced by permission of Taylor & Francis Books UK.

                                                                           Ibn Battuta describing his travels, circa 1325-1354 C.E


118. Which of the following led directly to the development of the economic system described
in the passage?

         (A) Military campaigns
         (B) Meteorological phenomena
         (C) Competition with European trade networks
         (D) The presence of highly developed port cities


119. The views expressed in this journal passage are best seen as evidence of which of the
following concerning medieval Islamic societies?

         (A) The absence of religious orthodoxy
         (B) Hostility toward outsiders
         (C) Limited economic opportunities
         (D) The supremacy of piety

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576


120. The tone of the passage best reflects which of the following developments in the Indian
Ocean trade network?

         (A) The ability of commerce to foster cultural diffusion
         (B) The superiority of Arabian port cities
         (C) The increasing difficulty caused by language barriers
         (D) The overproduction of cash crops


121. Ibn Battuta's experiences were LEAST similar to the experiences of which of the
following?
         (A) Zheng He
         (B) Marco Polo
         (C) Lorenzo de Medici
         (D) Xuanzang

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576

Questions 90-93 refer to the following passage.

[Mansa Musa] extended the borders of Mali in every direction. To the north, he added the
important trading centers of Walata and Timbaktu. To the east, he added Gao. To the west, he
expanded into Senegal and Gambia, reaching the Atlantic Ocean. Mali thus became the owner
of the north-south as well as east-west trade routes and the repository of important centers of
learning. ... Mansa Musa (1307-1337) consolidated the administration of the state, encouraged
trade and protected trade routes. In 1324, he performed his Hajj.... He took with him an
entourage of 12,000.... The Malians were rich and carried with them a plentiful supply of gold.
They spent so much of it during their trip that the price of gold fell in North Africa and Egypt....
On his return from Hajj, Mansa Musa stopped off in Cairo and Kairouan, brought a large
number of books and returned home accompanied by Maliki jurists, administrators and
Qur'anic scholars. He richly endowed the African universities, built mosques, patronized
scholarship, encouraged mass education and established closer relations with the Muslim
powers of North Africa. ... Mansa Musa is known in history as a pious man, a scholar, a
generous patron and a farsighted ruler.

                                                                                                  -An Encyclopedia of Islamic History
                                                                                                                      s.v. "Mansa Musa"


122. Mansa Musa expanded and consolidated the Malian empire using which of the following
tactics?

         (A) He established a state religion, outlawing others in the process.
         (B) Through universal education and military service, he standardized language in the
         empire.
         (C) He performed his Hajj and required all citizens to do the same.
         (D) He spread Malian culture through trade, diplomacy, and patronage.


123. Why did Mansa Musa bring legal and religious scholars and bureaucrats to Mali from
other regions?

         (A) To expose his court to modern technology
         (B) To strengthen trade in the growing empire
         (C) To reinforce Malian traditions
         (D) To incorporate successful imperial practices


124. During Mansa Musa's reign, trade routes served as conduits for various goods and
products (textiles, gems, gold, salt, and ivory). According to the passage above, what else was
spread because of the trade routes?

         (A) Diseases
         (B) Weaponry
         (C) Ideas
         (D) Medicines

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576

Questions 93 to 96 refer to the following passages.

Their arms are bows, iron maces, and in some instances spears; but the first is the weapon at
which they are most expert, being accustomed, from children, to employ it in their sports. They
wear defensive armor. ... They are brave in battle, almost to desperation, setting little value
upon their lives, and exposing themselves without hesitation to all manner of danger.... They
are capable of supporting every kind of privation, and when there is a necessity for it, can live
for a month on the milk of their mares, and upon such wild animals as they may chance to
catch. Their horses are fed upon grass alone, and do not require barley or other grain. The men
are trained to remain on horseback during two days and two nights, without dismounting.... No
people on earth can surpass them in fortitude... nor show greater patience.... They are most
obedient to their chiefs and are maintained at small expense.

                                                                                                                                   -Travels
                                                                                                                       Marco Polo, 1298

One woman will drive twenty or thirty wagons, since the terrain is level. ... It is the women's
task to drive the wagons, to load the dwellings on them and to unload again, to milk the cows,
to make butter and grut [curds and cheese], and to dress the skins and stitch them together,
which they do with a thread made from sinew. The men make bows and arrows, manufacture
stirrups and bits, fashion saddles, construct the dwellings and the wagons, tend the horses and
mares, churn the comas [mare's milk), produce the skins in which it is stored, and tend and load
the camels.

                                                                                                        -A Report on Gender Relations
         William of Rubruck, a Franciscan friar who visited the Mongols in the 1250s, on behalf of The King of France


125. The above passages reveal Mongol society to be primarily of which kind?
         (A) Bucolic
         (B) Nomadic
         (C) Urban
         (D) Agricultural


126. According to the above passages, the nature of Mongol society resulted in which of the
following?

         (A) Class distinctions that were carefully observed
         (B) Division of labor, which made gender equality possible to a large degree
         (C) Self-sustaining characteristics, which allowed for the creation of political alliances
         (D) Technological advances, which outweighed tradition


127. Overall, the Mongols appear to have been what type of people?
         (A) Carefree
         (B) Hardy
         (C) Resigned
         (D) Innovative

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576


128. Based on the passage, and using your knowledge of world history, what were the long-
term effects of the Mongols' military prowess?

         (A) New scientific discoveries
         (B) Frequent interclan wars that weakened the Mongols
         (C) Spread of the Mongol religion through Central Asia
         (D) The conquest of many established empires

Questions 97 to 100 refer to the following passage.

The city of Ghana consists of two towns. One is inhabited by Muslims and has twelve mosques,
salaried imams and muezzins, and jurists and scholars. In the environs are wells with sweet
water, from which they drink and with which they grow vegetables.... The king's interpreters,
the official in charge of his treasury and the majority of his ministers are Muslims. Only royalty
may wear sewn clothes. All other people wear robes of cotton, silk, or brocade, according to
their means. ... The king adorns himself like a woman, wearing necklaces round his neck and
bracelets on his forearms. He sits... in a domed pavilion around which stand ten horses. When
people who profess the same religion as the king approach him they fall on their knees and
sprinkle dust on their heads, for this is their way of greeting him. As for the Muslims, they greet
him only by clapping their hands. [The people's] religion is paganism and the worship of idols. ...
On every donkey load of salt when it is brought into the country their king levies one golden
dinar, and two dinars when it is sent out. From a load of copper the king's due is five mithqals,
and from a load of other goods ten mithqals. The nuggets found in all the mines of his country
are reserved for the king, only this gold dust being left for the people. But for this the people
would accumulate gold until it lost its value. Beyond this country lies another called Malal, the
king of which was sincerely attached to Islam, while the common people of his kingdom
remained polytheists. Since then their rulers have been given the title of al-musulmani.

                                   -The Book of Routes and Realms, by Abu Ubaydallah al-Bakri, eleventh-century Muslim
                                                                                                              historian and geographer


129. According to the passage, which statement correctly describes the economy of Ghana?
         (A) The king of Ghana's subjects are engaged in salt mining.
         (B) The Ghanians raised cattle for meat and hides.
         (C) The king of Ghana taxed salt and copper imports and exports.
         (D) The Ghanians had a self-sufficient farming economy.


130. What evidence is there in the passage that Ghanians were engaged, directly or indirectly,
in trade with Asia?

         (A) They kept horses in their court, which would have come from the Mongols.
         (B) The Ghanian king had adopted the Chinese tradition of the kow-tow.
         (C) The king adorned himself with gold and jewels, probably from India.
         (D) The people in his court wore silk robes.

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lOMoARcPSD|70358576


131. What is the most likely explanation for a Muslim being in charge of the Ghanian treasury?
         (A) To facilitate trade with the predominantly Muslim merchants during this era.
         (B) The king of Ghana had recently become a Muslim.
         (C) Merchants and trade were considered taboo in the traditional pagan religion.
         (D) African kings were merely vassals of the Muslim caliphs.


132. Based on the excerpt, which of the following statements correctly describes Islam's
influence in Africa during this time period?

         (A) Imams and muezzins ensured that all Africans adhered to Islamic law.
         (B) Some elites converted to Islam, but lower classes kept their traditional beliefs.
         (C) Muslim merchants refused to do business with anyone who was not Muslim.
         (D) African kings required Muslims to conform to pagan customs at court.

                                                                      messages.downloaded_by

